---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome to Xin's Homepage"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Xin Wang received a B.E. degree in Electrical Engineering and Automation from China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou, China, in 2015, and a Ph.D. degree in Control Science and Engineering from Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, in 2020, under the supervision of Prof. [Peng Cheng](https://person.zju.edu.cn/en/cp) (Changjiang Scholars Professor) and Prof. [Jiming Chen](https://person.zju.edu.cn/en/jmchen) (Changjiang Scholars Professor, IEEE Fellow). From 2018 to 2019, he was a visiting scholar in the Department of Computer Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Japan, working with Prof. [Hideaki Ishii](https://www.scl.ipc.i.u-tokyo.ac.jp/ishii/index.html) (Professor in The University of Tokyo, IEEE Fellow). Since 2020, he has been with Shandong Computer Science Center, Qilu University of Technology (Shandong Academy of Sciences), Jinan, China, where he is currently a professor and a master supervisor. In 2024, he was selected as a Young Taishan Scholar, and in 2022, he led his team to be included in the Shandong Provincial Higher Education Youth Innovation Team Development Program.

Dr. Wang has long been dedicated to research in the fields of distributed artificial intelligence, AI security and privacy protection, and the collaboration between large and small models. He has published over 40 high-quality academic papers, including more than 20 as the first author or corresponding author in renowned journals and conferences in the fields of information security, data processing, and the Internet of Things. His work has appeared in prestigious journals such as IEEE TIFS, IEEE TMC, IEEE TSP, IEEE TNSE, IEEE IoT Journal, and IEEE Sensors Journal, as well as at leading conferences like IEEE CDC, SecureComm, and CSCWD. 

In addition, he has been granted 38 Chinese invention patents (11 as the first inventor), 1 U.S. invention patent (as the first inventor), 3 utility model patents, and 20 software copyrights. His contributions have been recognized with several awards and honors, including the 2022 Shandong Provincial Science and Technology Progress Award (Second Prize), the 2023 High-Quality Scientific and Technological Innovation Achievement Award (Basic Research Category, Second Prize) from the Faculty of Computer Science and Technology (as the first contributor), the Best Paper Award at ICAUS 2024, and the Best Poster Paper Award at CCSICC 2021. 

In recent years, Dr. Wang has served as the principal investigator for 11 research projects, including the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), a sub-project of the National Key Research and Development Program, the Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation, and an open project of the State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology. As a key member, he has also contributed to 6 national-level projects, such as the Major Research Plan of the National Natural Science Foundation of China, International (Regional) Cooperation and Exchange Projects, and the National Key Research and Development Program. 

Additionally, he has served as a Guest Editor for Frontiers in Communications and Networks. He has held various organizational roles in academic conferences, including Web Chair for ACM ICEA 2021, General Chair for DASHE in IEEE DSC 2024, Technical Program Committee (TPC) Member for IEEE GLOBECOM 2025 and SmartGridComm 2022, and Session Chair for YAC 2024 and IEEE ICET 2022. Furthermore, he is an active peer reviewer for numerous leading journals and conferences, including IEEE TMC, TKDE, TAC, TSP, TII, TCC, TCSVT, and Automatica. 

<span style="color:red">Dr. Wang is seeking highly motivated Master’s students with a strong background in Computer Science, Control and Electrical Engineering, and Mathematics. Undergraduate students interested in his research are also welcome to join as research assistants. If you are passionate about these fields, please feel free to reach out and join our team!</span>
